how people buy in
B2B welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning and to check out my free guides
and playbooks podcasts resources or
whenever you're ready to apply to work
with me head over to samd dunn. org so
joining me today is returning guest I've
got Ryan Paul Gibson we chatting exactly
how people buy today in B2B and doing a
customer research master class we're
going to be diving into things like why
B to EXA don't suddenly wake up one day
and decide to invest catching your offer
we'll talk about key insights that Ryan
and his team have garnered from over 140
B2B exec interviews we're going to talk
about why you need to be doing customer
research in the B2B setting and at what
stage it can be beneficial and a bunch
of tips around gaining those insights to
Fu your messaging positioning marketing
much much more and of course a bunch of
no NOS when it comes to customer
research so with that said welcome back
Ryan how are we sir I'm wonderful I the
rumor is I'm in an elite club you've
only had a few people back that's the
rumor on the street the rumor could be
true I think to dat we've only had maybe
three four five Max returning guests so
it is a very elite golden ticket
membership so well thank you golden
ticket I'll look for mine in the
mail but yeah pleasure pleasure to have
you back man looking forward so much
worries if if I may I just want to um I
want everyone to know that I've I've
downloaded your SEO Playbook and it's
fantastic I used it myself for my own
business so everyone go download it now
appreciate it dude appreciate it so as
we always do let's dive into this
episode how people buy B2B right as as
far as I know when it comes to kind of
purchasing B2B be It software be it SAS
be at service y don't don't exec just
roll out of bed one day get the Sleepy
dust out the ride and think I'm going to
spend 75k on this piece of software and
then they just wire the wire the cash
across isn't that how it works if only
they did it would make everyone's lives
easier no they don't um and I I think
you know have doing this for 21 years
now often there's an expectation that as
soon as you show them the thing people
will buy the thing but I want to unpack
like why that sort of is so
problem the the adage we often use is
that you know we're trying to solve
challenges and Solutions in B2B with our
solutions that we're selling people the
thing is those problems don't manifest
you know immediately they they sort of
um Bubble Up in the in a business over
time so what I mean by that is um you
know something they have some maybe
process that they like that they have
that's core to the business okay some
type of challenge appears in it whatever
that might be right some type of
friction Point some the thing breaks
down and they audit it and you know they
need to do
XYZ now what they often will do is
they'll figure out different approaches
to solving that problem that's another
thing we don't buyers don't often
compare solution to solution they
compare approaches what are the ways
plural that we can solve this challenge
based on you know our business model how
we go to market what our objectives are
how we define success and and they will
you know look and evaluate at these
these approaches and then over time they
will Whittle it down to a short list of
things that they focus on that they
think will have a higher chance of
succeeding and then that's when their
intent is most high right about them
choosing something to use now here's the
thing um I don't know what your sales
cycle is Sam um say just say for sake of
argument is three to five months so and
that's three months of someon say I need
SEO help God help me I have no idea what
I'm doing and then you close them in
three months let's just say the they've
probably been dealing with that problem
or thinking about how to approach that
for two to three times that timeline you
know anywhere from nine months to you
know 12 months and it varies within
businesses I there are large
medium-sized businesses that take at
least a year to evaluate a solution
evaluate not think about the problem and
how they're going to solve it so you
know then what happens is they'll wh
down to a short list and they'll
evaluate and that's when you're high
intent deals sort of take shape and you
either win the deal or you don't so you
need to understand all that process for
you to actually influence it and that's
why B2B Executives or even if they do
buy because most aren't involved in
purchases um you know that is why they
don't just wake up and buy a thing now I
will say if it's it's like a lowrisk
lowcost solution that sort of fits
easily into a tchack say like a calendar
scheduler right um that usually has a
higher propensity a premium product Le
thing right U it's a different sort of
animal but for the most part what I've
just described is on average how B2B
buyers typically at work yeah yeah yes
it's a nice rebuttal and I agree with
like you say when it comes to perhaps
low ticket stuff
whether that is a piece of software like
a calendar Schuler social media schuer
something reasonably straightforward
that might be 10 20 25 bucks per month
that's relatively low risk doesn't need
a buying committee doesn't need a ton of
thought because you can probably just
use your credit card sign up get that
job done but like you say when it comes
to more riskier Investments that could
perhaps put your job on the line put
someone else's job on the line put your
own job on the line put put your
business at risk then it needs a lot
more thought lot more
consideration it's not something you can
just suddenly invest in especially if
you're a marketer and perhaps you need
to get sign off from other execs in your
company get them on board that it
becomes a lot more detailed and in-
depth I suppose right it does and
because the cash that you know the cash
you're using to buy your solution or
service comes from the cash that feeds
the entire operations of that business
right you have your budget right if say
it's you on the marketers right I might
have a marketing budet
but let's just say the tool is cross
functional you know the solution is
cross functional it's going to touch
multiple departments now you're starting
to get like multiple people involved you
know they're all having discussions
about what's the best approach and why
you know I've talked to buyers um going
up Market where it you know really
becomes an obstacle because what they
want is you to use the existing
infrastructure for everything right so
you know there's there you have to
understand the contextual nature
of how these things work because if you
don't it's going to be really hard for
you to influence that entire Journey um
um as a marketer and as a salesperson to
get like a qualified pipeline of people
in the door and then work them over that
timeline we just talked about right
which could be anywhere from a year to
two years got it let's take a little
step back so sure when we when we when I
asked you about no I'm waking up
deciding to spend big money on on
software service or or whatever what
whatever else it might be
so we talked about perhaps it it gets to
a certain stage it gets to a certain
point when maybe the problem they're
facing maybe some kind of system slowing
down or it's C causing them to lose time
or they've realized that they're losing
resource or they're losing cash usually
gets to some kind of head gets to some
kind of Tipping Point because the
problem came became so big tell us um a
bit more about what what you see when it
comes to organizations and a bit more
about what that looks like for some
context this is how I sort of look at
the world of B2B so most
solutions whether that's a product or
service they live within a larger
process so what I mean by that one way I
try to frame that is HubSpot HubSpot is
not marketing HubSpot supports the
process of marketing
operations right so it fits within a
larger business process which is their
goto Market strategy and supports it in
some way so you really need to
understand how your solution fits in
because that's where you understand how
it supports or how it um addresses all
those challenges within that process let
me give you an example so I worked with
a
company they had a piece of software it
focused on um automating chargebacks
chargebacks is the process of you
disputing an online payment that you
made right service product and
what was happening with their one of
their best fit buyers which was customer
success teams was they were getting
distracted from their core mandate which
is helping customers succeed and having
to hire people train people absorb
headcount um to deal with chargebacks
which is like fighting with the bank to
try and get your money back the customer
success directors were just like losing
their minds because they didn't want to
hire people to deal with that they
wanted to hire customer success teams to
help customers who are pain and you know
trying to do more things that was their
mandate so that was a key challenge
right so you have to look for those
friction points and understand them
because that is where the what we call
often call them buying triggers that's
where they live and that starts that
process of people looking for approaches
Sor you want to say something no no I
was saying I was saying that makes sense
in terms of like you say when a problem
becomes I like to use the term juicy
enough yeah but perhaps it's it's
painful enough it's frustrating enough
when it gets to that certain point that
it's causing your business some kind of
harm it's in in that case perhaps people
are wasting time when they want to be
focusing on actual customers rather than
trying to mess around with these other
other bits and pieces right and that
what that looks like what those pains
and challenges those obstacles look like
are going to be different based on a
whole variety of parameters the business
model where they sit in the organization
what their core objective are how they
measure success um you know what their
resources are so on and so on so you as
a marketer have to understand
contextually what those things are
within that business then how you
support that because if you don't
understand that you're going to really
struggle to influence that full spectrum
Journey um that we talked about right
and I audit hundreds of buying Journeys
a year so I see these patterns unfold
over and over again but there's
specificities in each of those buying
Journeys for my clients that they
leverage that then go to market so they
can start influencing that holistic
Journey got it cool so we've established
that it's rare that Prospect your target
prospects are going to wake up and buy a
they're gonna they're going to take
some serious thought depending on
probably the impact that it has
internally on your organizations things
like how many stakeholders need to get
involved how much of a problem is right
now how much cash they're going to have
to invest and various other factors
could impact the timeline that it costs
from well that it goes from initially
them deciding they want to fix it to
then them speaking to a vendor to them
then taking that time frame to evaluate
potential vendors to eventually closing
the deal so it can be especially an
Enterprise level service tech SAS deals
could be a long old game so you
mentioned a keyword just now Ryan which
was influence yeah and that's as B2B
companies that's something exactly want
to be be doing we want to make sure our
company is top of Mind ideally long
before they even see this as a
frustrating juicy annoying problem
absolutely by the time they get to that
evaluation stage we're number one on the
list yeah so when it comes to influence
it's a really great word to use how um
what is like the what's the stepping
what's the first thing that we should
have in our mind if we want to
start utilizing customer research to
make sure we can be the the number one
pick yeah well there's a few things
right so first off I like I actually
like to go start with sales or anyone
who's touching the customer um in a high
um high level right so customer success
product people sales because they often
have a good understanding of who you
need to go and do a deeper dive into and
they're going to give you that first
pass of insights right because they all
they have a great sense of like what's
happening in the Market at that high
intense stage so you start there and you
figure out who it is you want to go talk
to in the first place then you go and
find those people and you understand
step by step what is that process that
you know we just talked about over say a
year to 15 two years 15 months to two
years what is each incremental step they
use to identify those problems why those
are the problems they want to solve how
do they go about evaluating where do
they go get their information who do
they talk to in the organization and
what is that entire process right up
into a close one and if you talk to
enough people you'll start to see the
patterns and themes arise of like where
do they go who do they talk to and why
right then you're going to use all that
to sort of build out all your go to
market processes now that's a very
generalized uh view of it but that's
sort of your first stepping stone
because let's let's go into a bit more
before we skip forward so you've
mentioned speaking to CS product and
sales team yeah what what organizations
are we going to first and foremost
before we dive into kind of what we
should be asking them like are those
three teams like what should we yeah
like are we going to recently won
customers are we going to potential
prospects or who do you recommend that
that we actually into youw that it
depends on what you want to know right
and it depends what your objectives are
the as an organization right what I why
I like customer in-depth customer
research with the way that I do it is
that it unlocks insights for a whole
bunch of different things right so it
can help you understand how to make more
informed choices about your product it
can help you increase your uh win rates
it can help you lower acquisition costs
but let's just say for what I do which
is a lot of buyer research you have to
sort of focus on people that probably
have closed in the last 90 days or you
can focus on people that have no
knowledge that you exist which sounds a
little crazy but what you're trying to
get at is understand that process I was
talking about before what do they do
before they even know you're
around and how do they eventually get to
something like you that's a key thing to
understand now if you do enough
interviews or you do enough research
you'll know buyers typically start with
like three channels right which is
communities they start with their peers
and other vendors I you probably get
this right like you probably have other
customers ask you for recommendation but
how to do other things sure right so
that's typically where they start but
you still need to understand like what
are they asking about why are they going
to those peers when they talk to them
what happens after they talk to those
peers you know I'm try I'm so I want to
start with a customer that can help me
fix or help me get insights into what
specific part of the journey I'm going
to go after because if I if I talk to
someone that's been a customer for three
years they're going to have much
different answers and much different
intelligence for me than someone that
just closed you know nine days ago right
versus someone that's never uh talked to
us at all those are different types of
people they're going to give you
different answers that will help you
unlock different parts of the business
gotcha and did you say before we look to
go direct to those customers perhaps
ones that we won in the last 90 days or
perhaps more suspects rather than
prospects that maybe fit our Target
client persona but aren't actually
customers yet or Don't Know About Us but
before we do that we should go to our
own customer success product team and
sales team to get some insights from
those folks first I think so I mean
they're a wealth of knowledge the thing
is they just have a contextual view of
the business because as we all do right
everyone is focused on a different part
of building the business so they see
everything through that lens and salese
see things through deals customer
success people see things through the
challenges customer have using the
product on an existing level uh product
people hear about you know how the
product the intricacies of the product
the nuances and the new features they
need to build so no one is actually
looking at that whole part of the
journey we talked about which is maybe
you know 15 months a year before they
get to that high intent conversation
that's your job as the marketer to
figure out like what that looks like
because that's the part you have to
influence but you can start figuring out
who is the person to talk to about that
journey by talking to your PE in the
business about who are they seeing that
they think has the best chance of
converting into future Revenue got it so
that good for identifying the type of
prospects you want to be having these
these conversations with I think so yeah
is there anything else we should look
any other forms of Intel that you like
to get from a CS or sales or product
close um you know average contract
values close length of close Cycles
different markets right there are a lot
of um I work with a company now where
originally they thought they were going
to you know really lean into like SAS
companies but it turns out they're
actually selling well into things like
healthare Finance like very traditional
Industries right where software is sort
of just a part of supporting their
business operations it's not the thing
they make so you know you really have to
understand all those parameters because
your job is to build a qualified
pipeline so that sales has a higher
chance of closing these things right
that's your job
and you can't do that just by looking at
a dashboard or listen to sales you know
listening to sales calls you'll get
inklings of it but it's not the same
gotcha and then let's go a bit more into
once we actually know the the type of
kind of recent recently won customers or
Target prospects that you want to be
interviewing are there any I know
there's a whole bunch of questions that
you could ask and it probably depends
depending on what you're selling or
offering or providing but are there any
key ones that you think these are these
are must ask questions for every
TV I don't know that not
really I mean yes and no you're right
it's the classic depends scenario um I I
I
think how I look at I look at it this
way if this is your first time doing it
definitely have questions and objectives
because it's going to be really hard for
you to
navigate the nuances of how people give
you information so what I mean by that
is people don't just give you willingly
the things that you need and the
insights you have not because they don't
want to it's just their brain doesn't
work on instant recall the way you hope
it does so your job in an interview is
sort of help them re-calibrate their
thinking and Jog their memory about
things that have happened and give you
answers in a way that is useful for you
because they might think they're going
to be giving you something that's useful
but it's not so so how I structure this
is I will take an I'll write out my
objectives and let's just say my
objectives is buyer research that
understand that first part right where
it helps really helps
marketers you know what I want to do is
having objectives of and or themes that
I want to understand so you know maybe I
want to I want to have a talk track
around what the understanding what the
buying triggers were and the catalysts
because those are key I want to
understand how what the conversations
were like within the organization about
the different approaches they were going
to take and why where did they go to
learn or you know we often ask it like
what did how did you find us and people
like oh Google and they like sure but I
try to I try to get more to the heart of
it like who do you
trust to tell you information about how
to solve this problem where did you go
to learn the various approaches and a
lot of is what I mentioned before is
like communities peers existing vendors
great what did you talk about them why
did you choose them why those
communities you know why are they
credible you know what that those are
the things I'm trying to understand and
I I want to map out every point of that
process until they till they get to
close one I was a reporter for about
three years right an investigative
reporter so one of the things I learned
was is that was that process of
Investigation which is narrative
timelines facts
opinions are great for like reviews case
studies you know hot takes on this is
the best thing you've ever used you want
to know SEO go to Sam Dy like that
stuff's great because that helps with
like higher intent but what I want to
know is like that actual Journey they
took what are all the things they did
and why that's
investigation those if you can map that
out then what you're going to start
mapping out is all the insights and how
to influence that process they take to
get to choosing you say that three-word
term again Ryan was it
narrative um it's actions actions act um
I want actions events and timelines okay
action events timeline I like that yeah
because if that is the process they go
through it doesn't mean that the things
that they say that are subjective and
colorful not
important but this is research it's an
objective process right then what you're
going to do is take all those things and
turn that into your marketing which is
in some ways subjective but that's the
trick that's the key thing for me of how
I use interviews and why I'm such a fan
of them it's not so much that you the
thing you see on LinkedIn you and I live
there talk to your customers is like you
know every third post and that's fine
but talking to them is not the point the
point is actually sort of having a
process um that gets you from what you
want to understand to the actions you
want to use in the business to improve
the things that you want to improve
within the
business yeah nice so I think you and I
have got a little bit of an upper hand
on prap some of the people that are
listening to this or others may tell us
no so you used to be a did you say you
used to be a journalist or in it was
yeah for three years yeah got it so you
you've had some background on this to a
certain extent running these kind of
interviews and I've done 350 plus
podcasts so yeah guess I've got a little
bit of experience of interrogating
people and trying to pull some pull as
much free information as I can I don't
use that word I don't use
interrogation I can use it to guess but
probably not prospects or customers it
might piss them off um now so yeah we we
have some some experience right but yeah
when it comes to asking people questions
in general you and I both know that
usually not always but quite often the
first answer they give you is quite
surface level y you usually like you
said like when when it comes to
evaluating these kind of uh softwares
tools Etc where do you typically go they
might say community Google but we know
you need to dig deeper yeah like why do
you use there or are you sure that's
where you went first was that your very
first action or did you do something or
think about something first any tips for
people tuning in to why you shouldn't
take someone's first answer as gospel
and how you can get a bit deeper without
perhaps frustrating your interviewee the
prospect or customer a bre to tipe this
interv yeah this is the art right and
I'm sure when you started it's different
how you do it now compared to before um
I've rocked about 1900 interviews right
and one of the reasons is what I said a
few minutes ago is people just don't
naturally give you
answers that give you
depth uh and when you ask a question for
a whole bunch of reasons
so I think one of the things you need to
understand is is like how what is the
art how learn the art of a follow-up
question because the insights live in
the
follow-ups uh the most classic follow-up
or probing question is sometimes they
call it is why but why can start to
sound like an
interrogation to use your word um and
that's not what you want because these
people you want them to feel at ease you
want them to feel like it's an
environment where it it's they can share
things so rephrase followup questions is
key I will use techniques such as that's
interesting I I really want to dig into
that a little more or I have not heard
that yet that is fascinating let let's I
let's expand on that one there's all
sorts of ways you you can you can do
that so that's one of the reasons
because people just don't give you the
answers right away um I think also you
want to you really want to set the stage
this is no different than when you have
meetings you know when you um are going
to have calls with people they want to
be on a podcast right like you sent me a
framework of what you think you wanted
to talk about prior to us having that
discussion be very specific about what
you're trying to get because that puts
them at ease and then they won't just
sort of go all over the place right
because how you ask a question they
might interpret in their brain in the
few seconds they' listen to it as
thinking oh this is what they mean and
then they give you an answer but it
actually has
it was totally off the rails compared to
what you want to know and then the last
thing I'll say is people have a tendency
to Jump Ahead in
time
so think about when you're someone's
telling you a story and you ask
questions they'll often condense maybe
three months of activities within to
three sentences that's fine because
they're trying to sort of get to the end
your job as an interview is sort of take
them
back and that is I think a key one
because if you're trying to understand
that narrative right that process of how
they actually came from here to there
they're going to keep like jumping ahead
in the timeline so you have to sort of
figure out ways to bring them back and
sometimes how I handle that is I will
write I can understand what those key
pivot Points are you know I talk they
talked to it and it said this or we this
challenge just appeared out of nowhere
and I'll write those things down in my
notes as I'm conducting an
interview and after they finish you know
give me some insights I'll say I want to
go back to something you just said you
just mentioned this a few minutes ago
let's start there again what happened
next after that happened all that takes
practice Sam that's not something you're
going to learn how to do initially but I
think you know I have a guide on my
website it's basically everything I've
I've learned learned over the last 20 21
years being in marketing three years as
a reporter and then doing this for the
last three
years I I think when you look at a lot
of the Frameworks for how people use
customer research something that's like
really hard and dense for them to figure
out all these framework so I just sort
of stripped everything down like here is
a very simple process how you can
structure an interview get the things
you need conduct the interview and then
pull the insights out because that's
what at the end of the day I've realized
marketer or last year marketers need is
a simple process they can get things
quickly because they need to go deliver
results in the next two quarters and
that's key so how do you get a system
for that keep and that's do getting to
that point is some of the things I just
talked about excellent excellent I like
the I like the framework I like the
actions events
timelines getting to the to the hard
facts yeah essentially means you got to
dive deeper but all of that starts with
a almost like a great sales cool really
setting an upfront contract setting up
front agenda if you will so there's no
hidden surprises there's no hidden
decision makers as we often see in the
sales world or anything like that but
before the cool we're saying that this
is this is what we plan to discuss this
is why we plan to do it and this is what
you're going to get out of it and we're
hoping to achieve a lot of this is
similar to what you would do in a cold
Outreach customer Discovery call which I
know you have done you do right so it's
really about listening and understanding
their issue
at the beginning Less Talk More listen
and the more you can do that sort of
thing and really start to peel back
you'll see like how uh much insights you
can get into uh you know people's
day-to-day and how they contextually
look at Solutions in a market a category
right similar to
yours awesome so before we dived into
customer research and practically doing
it yeah we talked about influence ing
our Target prospects at each stage of
their process from no awareness a tool
of your offering to having a bleeding
neck problem they need to fix and then
suddenly eventually deciding that
perhaps your solution is the one they
want to put the top of the list so
that's more of a marketing angle of
using customer research are there any
other plays that we should consider
doing customer research for that can
benefit a B2B company uh win
loss absolutely win loss or win-win
right um sometimes you you learn more
from the one deals than you do um for
the Lost
deals I um I still work part-time for a
SAS company and they have um I know
other I've done this before in my career
as well where they have weekly meetings
where they go through sales calls and
it's marketing and sales together like
you want to get the alignment people
talk about walk through a deal from
start to finish the average like an
average deal of your best fit customer
you know why you why now what were the
objections um you know where did they
run down who do they have to talk to to
get Buy in what did the um the blockers
in the comp their company say that's a
key one right there's other ones um
other types of conversations I like are
like brand identity so that's more about
the perception of your
business um from the lens of a customer
and what they perceive you to be as
opposed to what you believe it
is um churn is a good one for SAS
company um or you know you I don't know
if you have a monthly retainer model but
you might have someone churn you know
why what was happening you know why were
we no longer a fit for
them um that's another one I like uiux
digging into a product right um or even
customer service businesses can really
benefit from that because the onboarding
process and how you serve a serve as a
customer over the course of time
you know there's probably processes and
things you need to put in place and
Implement that's a much different
conversation than the stuff I do and
that's going to impact a very different
part of the business because that's
going to you know your NPS scores are
probably going to go up if you can do
that um you know retention is going to
go up if you can sort of focus on that
all those things right so there's diff
it gets back to like what are what is it
you want to know what are the goals for
the company over the next couple
quarters what are the insights you need
and then how are you going to how you
going to structure the conversations get
those insights then action those
insights into the business got it yeah
there there's so many ways that you can
tweak it customize it position it right
so like taking my world if I'm maybe
doing customer research for a a brand
Brand's new website design and build if
we're going to interview kind of their
target prospects and understand things
like what are the most top three most
frustrating problems they face in their
world what usually leads up to causing
those to be a problem how do they go go
about looking for those what are the
kind of words that inside of jugg they
use to actually describe the solution
the problem the issue um yeah how do
they go about finding vendors in those
space when they they need that that
offer do they use Google do they use
Community all that kind of stuff that we
talked about what kind of stuff do they
care about seeing on your website like
do they want to see pricing fast they
want to see an online demo or all those
kind of things like you say you can
customize it depending on whether you
want to improve a product improve your
website or like you mentioned improve
your marketing which we can talk about
in a sec there's so many different use
cases that you can tweak these these
interviews for to to optimize and I
guess make best bang for buck absolutely
it's all a matter of what you want to
know right and it doesn't mean that it's
going to be your sole source information
there's other things that inform that
like I said dashboards sales calls
communities communities are a great one
of intelligence right so you um you go
into communities that are focused on
specific uh you know either professions
markets what have you you can find a lot
of really good intelligence there
because I know they're talking about
your products there right or competitors
of yours how are they talking about them
why you know what how are they
articulating them what are the tradeoffs
are talking about oh you can use notion
for this but you can't use notion for
that right I had a I posted the other
day a whole thread of people comparing
active
campaign um I think it was paddle and
notion as CRM and it was a thread that
went on for like six or seven posts of
all these Founders comparing them that
stuff's happening all the time so those
are really good points of reference to
understand what are the words customers
are using to
talk uh to customer words customers are
using to describe you and your brand and
your product right because that's really
what matters at the end of the day you
can you can try and force whatever
jargon you want to into the market
Market at the end of the day com
customers use their own uh jargon let me
give a really good example so there's an
accounting
software I won't name it um it's very
popular around the world their customers
use an acronym all the time like it's
constant but in their brand guidelines
they tell you you if you're a partner or
someone that's working using their their
their branding you can't use that
acurate and I've always been so confused
because like that's the word their
customers
use so why would you not why would you
not lean into it they they're so upset
that you know they're not controlling
the
narrative but at the end of the day to
me how I interpret that it's a signal of
of love for that brand they've created
their own acronym for it and they share
that acri in their communities why would
you not lean into that strange isn't it
it is but that's it's often that's often
we know we we create all this friction
against uh what we want customers to do
when we should be flipping it and like
how are we fitting in contextually into
the world that they
know right that's the key one of the key
things that this Stuff unlocks yeah
interesting point earlier as well you
you mentioned about that you don't
necessarily just need to rely on kind of
customer interviews himself you can dive
into communities and like you say that's
probably where a lot of it unhinged
because people are going to type what
they want if that's a group slack
Channel I don't know something like ref
genius and one founder ask what do you
think I need to get a CRM for myself
team of five where this this level
startup and this is what we sell what do
you guys recommend people are just going
to give that un unheld back opinions and
that's where you're GNA get those juicy
nuggets of what people really think and
how people really talk about your offer
behind closed doors right here's here's
what I would do though Sam let's just
take let's extrapolate that example
right so let's just say I'm comparing
HubSpot active campaign and I see that
happen five or six times now I know a
landing page to make because I guarantee
guarantee you what people just did after
that is they went and Googled HubSpot
versus active
campaign right so you you probably would
know that by H hopping into uh Sim Rush
HRS whatever right maybe see that I know
you probably have better knowledge than
I would there but what you what I've
talked about is something in the wild
where people are actually comparing it m
you can start to see the language of how
they're comparing it and it's so
fascinating because now I'm as a
marketer I'm like okay now I need to
understand how do people talk about us
when we're not in the
room and you can influence that so you
and the way to do that is to understand
how they make those decisions and how
they talk about these things got it yeah
yeah I mean like you said that's that's
almost Gold Dust if people are
especially if there's if people are
really singing your praises and you can
use maybe you can grab a new use case or
a new way to describe your offer or a
new problem that you fix or a new job
you help people get done and yeah if you
see that that's almost Gold Dust to use
in in that copy for those competitor or
those alternative landing pages right
absolutely yeah nice so let's go back to
the interviews we've done some
interviews but what I didn't ask was in
your recommendation how
many potential prospects or how many
existing customers that we won within
the last 90 days how many should we be
interviewing and then I want to talk
about what insights we should be then
leveraging to get back to our influencer
being the marketing influence we want to
be yeah so people debate
this um across all disciplines I find so
what I mean by disciplines is you know
I've seen product people give a
different
number you know people who talk about
you know validating a business model
give a different
number I'll tell you what I I say so
let's just say we have Traction in a
market product Market fit is sometimes
what people call it
now you you have to understand a term
called Insight
saturation uh which is um used in
qualitative qualitative research is what
I do to use like an academic
term so I've read peer reviewed studies
on the ideal sample sizes for
qualitative research super nerdy stuff
no one should go read it I have done it
for you
yeah I've done the thing you don't have
to do for your be on your behalf
so this people don't believe me when I
say this or they they start to get taken
aback if you plotted all the insights
that you that you start to hear over and
over again like within consistent
consistency right so let's get that
example I gave uh a few minutes ago
about chargebacks right I'm hiring
headcount you know I've hired I've
doubled my head count uh to deal with
chargebacks and it's my budget's got
eaten
up what you'll notice is you might
you'll start to not hear new things like
so you'll start to hear that over and
over again after about seven interviews
right right doesn't sound like a lot
right but that's where the bell curve
starts to sort of go over the other side
of the cliff after seven interviews
where you start hearing you don't start
start hearing new things anymore more it
maxes out typically around 12 to 15
you've captured 99% of the
insights and when I say that to people
that actually feels less daunting for
them to go out and you know capture some
key things the caveats though are you
know go you have to do that thing I
talked about a few minutes ago talk to
your colleagues dig in the data and find
like that best fit customer for your
specific research
objective because if I talk talk to an
IT
director of a hospital and an IT
director at a fortune 5000 software
company their titles are the same but
those are not the same
job and even if they're using your
software there's going to be different
ways that they talk about it
contextually within that world let me
give you a really example so I worked
with an Enterprise company where I am in
Ottawa Canada and they were winning 80%
of deals in the healthcare
space um against companies like Oracle
sage like they're a scrappy Enterprise
startup from Canada and they're beating
these massive billion dollar companies
but when you dug into why it's because
when you spoke to their customers and
they they started talking to them in the
sales process and looking at their
literature they had just by happen
stance over the last few years hired
former Healthcare CFOs to be part of the
client success onboarding and sales team
so as soon as they got into the room
with these CFO CFO to
CFO the words they used just matched
instantly like there's just instant
chemistry they understood our world they
were closing they were coming in from
behind on these deals but closing 80% of
them so you need to understand you know
who is the fit because if if I if I talk
to like a Hospital CFO and then a
nonprofit or CFO at again like
Salesforce they're
different right so the data is not going
to be consistent you're not going to hit
that Insight saturation you're actually
going to bias a lot of your data you
could make bad decisions so that's the
key part seven to 12 interviews make
sure the people it's apples the apples
yeah yeah yeah and you you've got ahead
of me with with the the repetition side
of thing seeing patterns in those
answers that you're getting so give us
an example Ryan of when you say
repetition when you say after seven
interviews or so you'll start hearing
similar things and you'll realize that
you've kind of got to a point where
you've got enough insights to leverage I
guess what this this will vary a lot but
perhaps give us an example of a company
you've interviewed and what you've what
you've heard and how that looks like and
then once we've done that how we can
then take that to influence our our
marketing goodness our be our website
headline whatever we want to it up to I
got the perfect example so if you go to
my website I have a case it's called my
one case study and it's a riff on case
studies with sales teams because
everyone they always want to new case
study which they usually do need but I
it's just sort of a tongue and cheek
thing uh it's a software company here
where I work in
Ottawa and they had an acquisition of
something a product that fit well into
their
portfolio and we use the founder
intelligence
uh business intelligence to go to market
first and some of it was right you know
we were getting leads in but we weren't
really seeing the revenue growth and
projections that we wanted to
see so I got tapped to go in and
understand why because sales was the one
the team that was sort of raising their
hand first and saying something is off
here based on like what they've told us
uh you know with who they think the
their hypothesis around their best fit
customer verus versus who's coming in
the door and actually buying
so we went and talked to a section of
buyers and what was really interesting
was just for context rewind uh provides
backup and recovery software for SAS
platforms and they just bought a GitHub
um product or a GitHub product to put
into her
portfolio the key thing that kept coming
up when we talk about approaches right
remember we mentioned approaches one of
the
approaches that the best fit buyer which
was an IT person was taking was they
were trying to build their own version
of rewind in
house and that's common for companies
especially people in the software realm
because they just want to buy build the
thing in house and use existing
resources but we knew something they
didn't and we knew that they would
always fail based on how the apis fit
work together it's like how the software
talk to each other so the one key
language the key thing that kept coming
up was I I was building backup scripts
and they kept
failing we probably heard that that
about maybe five times out of like the
the 10 interviews that was enough for me
like okay that's interesting so what do
we do we built an entire landing page
focused on that narrative and put ads
behind it stop building backup
scripts on that page installs doubled
within a month
right those are like what a huge win for
such a small not small but you know very
concise effort there was still a ton
more to learn and and that journey of
them understanding their best have buy
like it's spend three hours talking
about especially now that rewind moved
up Market into the Enterprise space so
but that's such a key thing that you
people listening out could do tomorrow
right like could find one of those key
things using that voice of the customer
work one of those key challenges you
don't have to go change your website you
can just build a separate land you can
get Sam duny to build you a separate
landing page right and then you know put
some effort towards that right so it's
you know there's all these things that's
such a key way to like get Traction in
the market and understand how you can
like get ahead of people and build a
better pipeline I hope I answered that
question Ro yeah you did and the thing
about that is that it can be used not
just for marketing collateral right like
that problem that
was basically the bottleneck of when
those prospects were trying to build
that software internally and that was a
problem that was then causing them to
evaluate other other companies to help
them get that job done is you could
actually use that in sales Outreach
absolutely or demand gen to say what
remind me of what the issue was say the
issue again uh backup scripts backup
scripts yeah have messaging around that
or if you're doing cold outbound you
could say ever facing issues around your
backup scripts and they'll be like oh
yeah yeah yeah and if you running
ads to like cold prospects and things
like that that's really going to
resonate because you've hit hone with
that that issue
I want to talk about cold Outreach
really quick if I may I I know there's a
lot of flak to
it people have been doing it for decades
like that's not new I I started 21 years
ago used to get cold faxes like I'd be
sitting in the fax machine doing the
filing in the filing cabinet that's how
long ago I was been around and I'd see
the faxes come in and it would be the
same nonsense you see in cold DMS on
LinkedIn now it's just like a different
sort of format here's the thing though
I've talked to buyers that have bought
from cold Outreach I've interviewed
them here's what they tell you when you
ask them why they say oh because it was
incredibly
relevant uh to what I wanted at the time
and they seemed credible as an
organization that th that's very key
because most cold Outreach is not that
specific but if you can have something
that's very credible you just gave the
example right if I know the person and
how their personas and their
psychographics and I can get that
sentence in front of them and you know
use some of the cold Outreach stuff that
we have there are companies that still
build
like if they start at zero if I'm a
startup and I'm trying to go to 1
million in repeatable or recurring
Revenue Outreach is still a really great
way to do that right it's just
understand like what is relevant and
what's
credible yeah yeah yeah that's it a lot
of it is you you've got of course have a
average contract value per year to to
Warrant outbound activity typically yeah
that's true that is true I think it's
like the Crux of marketing and and
Outreach in general isn't it right
timing right message yeah you've got to
resonate so you've got to have that
juicy problem that your Target customers
agree is a is a juicy problem absolutely
and then if you can deliver it in a way
that's whether that is an outbound
message or whether that is an
advertisement whether that is on your
landing page on your homepage you can
deliver it a way that's is stinct and
directly speaks to that Prospect then
you're going to have some success if
you're just going by what you think
works or talking about how great you are
or how long you've been in business then
you ain't gonna be around for too long
no because what when that does matter
though is when they've actually you're
sitting in front of them and they're
trying to understand if you're the right
option for them you know that's when
it's important that you've been in
business 12 years that you worked with
all these clients not at the beginning
because they don't know who you are from
a hole in the
ground nice nice nice
so we've done the interviews we've
interviewed seven maybe 12 maybe 15
maybe we've look we've got an idea of
how we can look for those patterns
you've given us a nice
example of how we can take a problem
leverage that from messaging yeah
anything else we should be
doing uh yeah communicating everything
in
house it's
so your new insights if they are new and
sometimes it's not new sometimes it's
just filling
gaps but here's what I've seen happen
people get excited about new research
especially marketers right and even
salespeople
but when you start um you know
communicating all these new insights
into the organization it's not that they
don't necessarily land the first time
and get internalized and actioned you
might as the marketer
uh for some things but I've been in
meetings where with my marketing
colleagues they've talked about the old
ways of doing things even though we just
did a round of research and there's
fresh insights around you know things we
should be doing and I've had to correct
them as politely as I can because I
don't want they're not wrong they're
just operating with old intelligence
right and it's hard to get out that
habit so there's a few ways you can do
that ways that I've seen it one is you
traditional like have an internal dock
great right um in meetings make sure
that you call things out um if you have
like an some type of Wiki so like notion
Confluence what have you one thing I
really like um is with now with AI I've
seen this out in some communities you
can create
workflows where um let's just use gong
not I I don't use them but I just know
them as a sales call tool sure you can
highlight key you know insights that can
get fed into slack right and pop up
instantly or like new sales call
recorded you know here's the synopsis
via everyone right like you have sort of
keep a lot of those things going or what
I've done in some of those um weekly
calls and Deals when the person a person
gets um we start talking about the deal
I'm I'm checking out their LinkedIn page
like the person who bought I'm on their
website I'm reading like everything and
then I'm sharing key things that's
consistent with what we've seen before
in their research to sort of re um
what's what I'm looking for but like you
know um it sort of nails down and
reinforces that we were right with our
research right so there's all these
little things you can do because it's
it's a continual learning Expedition we
want to make we want people to
understand that you know what we did was
for a key purpose the we took yeah all
four that I did a an episode on getting
B2B stakeholder Buy in and I was pretty
much saying the same stuff as you there
like prove prove wins as little or small
as they are in every channel and and
send that I don't know whether that's an
email whether that's putting in the
slack channel for your team or however
you can report that to the rest of the
team yeah let show them as frequently as
you can what I want to have happen is if
we have really nailed down our best fit
buyer and how we influenced that journey
I wanted to keep putting resources into
that and not let it
slip because that's what's best for the
business so I want that to always be the
case now what we haven't spoken about
actually on the stakeholder buying side
of things is yeah it can be difficult I
mean if you're a small startup then it
might be easier and if your Founders all
for it or if you are the founder doing
the customer interviews yourself then
obviously you can just learn get the
insights and crack on and get it done if
you're a small team you can probably do
much of the same if you're Founders all
for it however when you get to larger
organizations there's a lot more red
tape it's going to be a lot more
difficult to to get these things moving
yeah what's your experience in terms of
especially if it comes to I don't know
things like re redoing your homepage
messaging on your website or changing
some of your key landing pages or your
ads then it could be that hot top level
exacts are getting shaken up because
you're saying L I've run these
interviews and I've proven that the
problem we think we fix is not what we
fix and here's what our buyers actually
want to do here's the jobs they really
want to get done and this is what we
need to be doing because here's the
proof I've got the recordings I've made
the writeups let's get it done and start
ramping up kind of impact of of these
channels y when they say hold on we've
had this for years and years we're not
suddenly changing this I mean what do
you recommend they
do well first you got to speak the
language of
Executives pipeline cash flow you know
acquisition all that stuff um they care
about the big strategic
problems so you need to understand how
you tie those efforts to
that so I think that's the first thing
is is talking those languages right so
if you want to say listen I want to
increase um I've talked to sales um I
feel like with this new intelligence we
can increase uh their win rate by 5%
over the next two quarters I want to see
if we can do that that is like a
different conversation
then I want to change the messaging on
the homepage right because what you're
doing is you're you're actually focusing
on the larger thing as opposed to like
the thing that you want to do that might
not be in their purview right so that's
one key thing the other things you is
you can test it right um we talk about
AB testing at at length in marketing B2B
or B Toc the reality with B2B is we
don't often have a lot of volume to test
like AB but what I can do is I can cre
create I can spin up a landing page now
within an hour right these days 10 years
ago that took me much longer to do right
now it's I can do it almost instantly
and I can test those things in the
market right so how however I want to do
that I can I can create a landing page I
can put into communities put some ad
behind Ad work ads behind it I can you
know DM it in an ABM strategy to you
know 20 people that fit our criteria
like there's all these ways and then
what you do there is it's not affecting
sort of the IP you have you've
established over five years it's a test
to understand if you've done your job
well about Gathering insights and then
you report that back to the executive
team like you can't just go and expect
it turn water into wine instantly you
have to show that you're getting
incrementally towards a goal and
objective that they care about I hope
that answer the question but that's like
that's how I you're you're similar I
mean you're definitely right in terms of
SE level exec speak their language speak
in terms of how how it's going to impact
perhaps website traffic which will then
improve inbounds demos which is then
going improve our bottom line and like
you say you probably got to start with a
smaller experiment or example that then
can prove that this is something that's
worth making that Monumental change
absolutely I I was going to give my
recommendation which probably no one
should take which is it's better to seek
forgiveness than it is permission oh you
can do that I've with that being a
Founder so I can quite literally spin up
a new homepage spin up a new landing
page start testing this message yeah
change my podcast ads do do anything I
want but yeah if you if you have got a
chance like let's say exec is shooting
you down left right and Center if there
is something you can do as a marketer
small scale maybe that is like you
mentioned Ryan building out a small
landing page or building out a small
email campaign or building out something
on a small scale just so you can prove
that it resonates with that target
market and then you say holy that
actually worked really well then get
that across the leadership then you'll
start getting by and if they see you're
getting signups you're getting some kind
of improved result then they'll be
foolish to turn it down yeah I I think
so I think you just have to understand
the process of how these things work I
mean I've sat on a leadership team at a
company and I understand how budgets get
allocated I understand the push backs uh
push back that other teams have against
why we do certain things so you just
have to really do your job about
building the case and that's not easy
for a lot of people because they want to
sort of go and get results instantly and
do the thing I get it I've been there
but there's all these competing
interests in a business of things that
we want to get done why do you get to do
your thing so you actually customer
research though is actually really great
at like helping you build the case
because it's all there the customers do
the work for you of building the case
you just have to take the insights and
sort of mix them in the right way and
then sort of go to market with them and
see what comes back like a nice cocktail
Friday afternoon here so I was just
gonna say we're rolling into the I'm
almost ready for one man I feel it cool
good stuff look I appreciate you sharing
these insights I want one last thing
from you because I know you've said that
you've ran is it 140 audited B2B
customer buying Journeys yeah I did what
were the top one or two insights that
you took from those because that's a
time right yeah so I I worked with uh a
friend of mine Alan even he's um
fractional CMO and he messaged me one
day he's like put them all put
everything you've done together in the
last little bit I'm like okay so I went
through them and audited them all and
sort of pulled out like top insights and
the key like the key thing for me is was
like what I always like to understand
trusted sources of information that's
different than where do I research who
do I
trust and the top three like 67% of the
sample out of 143 interviews uh the top
three sources were peers communities and
existing vendors that's where they start
so when we if we go back to the
beginning when we were talking you know
and that pain starts to sort of permeate
and get to be an issue where do they
start who do they trust to go and ask
but the approaches they should be taking
peers
communities vendors now Community is a
bit of a a this word right that can mean
a whole bunch of different things right
but that could be because that could be
LinkedIn right I just drop a something
LinkedIn and people give me their hot
takes now it doesn't mean that they're
going to this is where they choose the
vendor that they are going to go with
but that's where that short list starts
to get built and that's where they
devote more mental
availability to the solutions their
peers recommend like that was a key one
for me because you know we always talk
about like Word of Mouth referrals and
so on yeah uh that that's where those
things start so you're I always look at
that as okay well how does that
translate into marketing I need them to
understand if their next action is to
Google me then I need to understand what
is it they care about what are the
what's the information they're looking
for how do I seem credible you know what
are the words they want to see because
when you ask that's also what really
comes out of the 144 interviews I've
done when you ask them likewhy did you
keep talking to this
vendor they understood my world they
seem to get it you know I didn't have to
explain they just listened and they
seemed to nly you know have a really
good size um sense of the problems and
the issues so you know here it is when
B2B buyers care about a Valu Your
solution relevance in subject matter
expertise you know is it relevant to my
world do they know what they're talking
about I want tangible business outcomes
show me what you
did right and how it moved the needle
and you'll appreciate this one Discovery
calls that feel like
discussions not sales or
demos listen to me ask me questions
about my business because that feeds
into sort of them you know having
credibility around what you do those are
the things that matter like how they
defined you and then when I want to talk
to you what are the things that help you
rise above all the other vendors they're
talking to or approaches that they're
taking those are the key things that
stood out for me that's still very
general Sam your job is still to go in
and figure out like contextually what
does that mean within your target buyer
but those are the key things that rise
to the top legend legend and this is
probably a bad business thing but a lot
of companies I speak to especially when
they say we need SEO I actually tell
them SEO is not the best bet for them
especially if they're in like a category
that's not well established so people
aren't actually searching for their
offer their product their service their
solution or maybe they're a startup and
they haven't got that much cash yeah to
actually invest in it properly or they
don't have internal resources I'll say
well ditch SEO for now because it's not
relevant understand like you said there
the prospects who exactly is your target
market when they get this problem when
it gets to that Tipping Point what are
they going where are the trusted places
that they're going to get their sources
information yeah are they going to some
kind of slack community group are they
hanging out on LinkedIn are they going
to YouTube or they listening to a
certain type of podcast if you can get
that at this stage it's going to be far
more beneficial for you to start putting
out content putting out your messaging
whatever than investing in SEO when you
probably have the cash to see it through
or you probably don't actually have the
right type of prospect searching for you
so what you said there is yeah I think I
think it's bang on the money Ryan so
look appreciate the the chat it's been
an enjoyable one as always but please do
tell us more about how people can find
with you connect with you and I know you
are running a deal on your guide yeah so
let's point the audience to how get just
for just for your audience just for the
people that like you no one else um yeah
so content lift is my company um you can
find me at content lift. uh you can find
me at LinkedIn I'm there way too much my
wife doesn't get it
um and I have a few things so I have a
list of questions that I have on my
website which is my first SEO play which
is what I used your your playbook to
help inform how I did it and
um that is free you can grab it it's
there on my you can get it through my
LinkedIn or on my website at content.
but I also have my DIY guide which is
running how to run customer research
interviews that don't suck um it's
everything I've done in the last 20
years you know how you and things we've
talked about but more in depth right so
how you structure them how you find them
what do you need to talk about which
ones for what purpose uh how to conduct
them there's there is um examples of
interviews I've done and I take you
through like the different points of
interviews and inflection points and how
to navigate answers like it's a ton of
material and I even built a
GPT uh so I uploaded like everything all
my knowledge and like every LinkedIn
post uh different podcasts I've been on
it's uploaded all into um
the GPT so if you have a GPT
subscription you can go and just ask the
DIY guide a whole bunch of different
things and like spit out Frameworks for
you so yeah I have a a discount code for
everyone for like 50% off that I'm going
to share with everybody
now cool man and we will put that in the
episode notes the description get over
to
content. and check out the description
for the code AS Ryan's book Ryan's guide
B2B customer research is well well worth
your time get over to that I hope so
well fine someone will let me know if
it's not yeah man we'll we'll link we'll
link everyone happy so yeah againe
appreciate you coming on we'll put all
of those links in the description and
the the mentioned no worries at all got
to give a very quick shout out at the
end to sam.org my company so if you do
want more free book playbooks on SEO B2B
marketing go to market any of the other
podcasts or to apply to work with us
head over to samd dunn. org and as
always if you enjoy today's episode of
rating your review is very much
appreciated we can check more episodes
over at businessgrowth do marketing and
Ryan thanks again enjoyed the chat we
should catch you soon thank you so much
Sam I always appreciate talking to you
and thanks for having me on and cheers
for everyone tuning in cheers